
øF-PC-Utils             Utilities Provided in F-PC
                        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  F-PC provides a number of tools to make exploring and programming in
Forth easier and more efficient.

                                Categories

ùDecompiler             Un-compiles memory to see what was compiled.
ùDebugger               Source level debugger for Forth words
ùDump-Memory            Examine any memory area of the computer.
ùWhere-Used             Shows where a word is used.
ùStack-Print            Examine the contents of the forth stack.
ùView/Browse            Hypertext link around the F-PC source code.
ùWord-Help              Operational Help on any F-PC word.
ùWords-Like             Scans dictionary for words containing a string.
ùMulti-File-Search      Scan multiple filespecs for a string.
ùMulti-File-Edit        Edit multiple files containing a string.




øDecompiler                   Forth Decompiler
                              ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

   The word ùSEE will Un-compile any (non-code) Forth word and show you the
compiled source for that word.


        Typing: SEE ùHEX <Enter>                <Enter> is the Enter key.

        Will show:      : HEX
                                16 BASE ! ;


  The decompiler can also be used on other Forth words types as well.  The
primary advantage of the decompiler is that it is available even when the
source code is not available for viewing.





øDebugger                 Debug Hi-level Forth Words
                          ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  F-PC contains a source level debugger that allows stepping through Forth
Colon definitions as they execute while examining the stack operations.
This can be very useful when looking for renowned "Stack Underflow"
problem.

  Two words are available for starting the debugger, they are:

       ùDEBUG <word> <Enter>    Start debugging <word> when it is later
                                executed.

       ùDBG   <word> <Enter>    Start debugging <word> now.

When the debugger is invoked, the source for <word> will be shown on the
upper lines of the display with the current word hilighted in reverse
video. A running word by word scroll with the current stack contents will
appear at the bottom of the screen allowing you to step through the
definition and watch what happens.


øDump-Memory              Display Memory Contents
                          ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
  F-PC has words to dump any portion of memory in the computer. Multiple
words are provided to make it easier to examine certain areas of the
computers memory.

       Stack contents            Word               Function
   ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
   ( address length )           ùDUMP           Dumps CODE segment

   ( segment offset length )    ùLDUMP          Dumps ANY segment

   ( relative-segment length )  ùXDUMP          Dumps LIST segment

   ( offset length )            ùYDUMP          Dumps HEAD segment


  XDUMP takes the "relative-segment" that is compiled into the BODY field
of a COLON definition and adds the contents of XSEG to determine where to
XDUMP from.

øWhere-Used             Where is This Word Used
                        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

  Just as it is useful to look at a word's source to see how it works, it
is also useful to see how a word is used.  The word to do this is:

        ùREF <word> <Enter>

  All words that use <word> will be listed along with their vocabularies.









  See also ùWORDS  ùHELP


øStack-Print                Display Data Stack
                            ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ


  F-PC provides two ways to look at the stack non-destructively.  At the
Forth command level, you can type ù.S <enter>, to see the stack displayed
horizontally with the top of stack to the right.  The second way to display
the stack is with a background task that is watching the keyboard waiting
for both SHIFT keys to pressed. Then the routine detects both Shift keys,
it pulls down a stack from the top of the screen which will remain visible
until you release the Shift keys.  you can try it NOW, although you will
probably only see the message "Stack Empty" appear.  At the Forth command
level, after you have placed several items on the stack, a menu-like window
will be pulled down showing the stack contents.







øView/Browse            View or Browse a word
                        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

  When installed on a hard disk drive F-PC has immediate access to the
source for every word in the system. You can browse ANY Forth word by
typing the following command:

        ùBROWSE <word> <Enter>

  F-PC will lookup <word> and startup a browser on its source file for you
to examine.

  F-PC actually has several ùALIAS or shortcut names you can use for the
above command. Any of the following will work the same as BROWSE.

                        ùB      ùVIEW   ùV





øWord-Help              Give me Help on a Word
                        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ


  Just as the source for any word in F-PC can be Browsed of Viewed, you can
get usage Help on any word in F-PC with the following command:


        ùHELP <word> <Enter>

  The <word> will be looked up, and the help file containing help for
<word> will be shown to you in a browser.

  An ùALIAS or shorthand name for HELP is ùH .




See also ùWORDS  ùREF


øWords-Like              Words Containing
                         ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

  F-PC can show you which words in its 2000+ word dictionary that contain a
particular sequence of characters.  The command is:

                ùWORDS <sub-string> <Enter>

  All word in the dictionary regardless of which vocabulary they are in
will be displayed along with the vocabulary name they are in.

  You can even pass two strings to WORDS and it will show words which
contain only BOTH strings.

                ùWORDS <sub-string1> <sub-string2> <enter>



  See also ùREF ùHELP


øMulti-File-Search      Find a String on Disk
                        ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ

  There are times when you would like to know in which files a particular
word or phrase is used.  For example you might want to know every place
that uses a particular graphics word, or maybe you can't remember shich
file contains the serial interface words.  F-PC makes it easy to look for
such things on your hard disk with the following command:

                ùFLOOK GRAPHINIT SRC\*.SEQ <filespec> <filespec>

  In this example, we are looking for the word GRAPHINIT in the
subdirectory SRC, and we are looking in all .SEQ files.  Multiple file
specifications can follow and all files matching will be searched. The
search is NOT case sensitive.  You can print all occurances found in the
above command by preceeding it with the ùPRINT command as follows:

                ùPRINT FLOOK GRAPHINIT SRC\*.SEQ

  See also ùEDITALL

øMulti-File-Edit   Edit all occurances of a String
                   ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ


  Like FLOOK on the previous screen, there are times when you want to
change all or almost all occurances of a character sequence from one string
to another.  F-PC provides the ability to do this in the following command:

                ùEDITALL GRAPHINIT SRC\*.SEQ <filespec> <filespec>

  In this example perhaps you want to change all occurances of GRAPHINIT to
GRAPHICS-INIT, as would occur if you changed the graphics package you were
using.  Each file containing GRAPHINIT will be started in the editor at the
first occurance found. You can then change it and search for additional
occurances with Alt-F6, the repeat search command in the editor.

  When you leave the editor saving changes, the search will continue and
start the editor on the next file where a match is found.

  See also ùFLOOK


